Execution API (#396)
grafana/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/docs/02 javascript api/11 k6-execution/1-Execution.md

---
title: Execution
excerpt: 'Get execution information'
---

> k6 v0.34.0 introduces the capability for getting information around the execution process from the test's script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
k6 v0.34.0 introduced the capability for getting information about the current test execution state, from inside of the test's script.
```

> It can be used importing the `k6/execution` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be used by importing the `k6/execution` module.
```

> ```

Reviewer: These code blocks aren't properly formatted 
```suggestion
<div class="code-group" data-props='{"labels": [], "lineNumbers": [true]}'>

```js
```

import exec from 'k6/execution';

var options = {
	scenarios: {
		'myscenario': { // this will be the returned name
			executor: 'shared-iterations',
			maxDuration: 30m
		}
	}
}

export default function() {
	console.log(exec.scenario.name) // myscenario 
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

</div>
```

> The module has a default export that has the following keys `scenario`, `instance` and `vu` which in themselves expose information specific to the context in which it's being accessed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module has a default export that has the following keys: `scenario`, `instance` and `vu` which in themselves expose information specific to the context in which it's being accessed.
```

> ### Scenario

Reviewer: If you don't look at the examples, it's not clear that the actual path to these properties is something like `k6/execution.scenario.name`... Not sure even if this change is enough. Any ideas @grafana/k6-devs?
```suggestion
### `scenario`
```

Reviewer 2: I prefer leaving it as it was before, since this doesn't make that point clearer. We do mention the keys of the exported object in the paragraph before this, so with the examples I think the usage should be clear enough.

| Field               | Type    | Description                                                              |
|---------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| name                | string  | It is the assigned name of the running scenario.                                |
| executor            | string  | It is the name of the running [Executor](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/scenarios/#executors).                                                |
| startTime           | integer | It represents the unix timestamp in milliseconds when the scenario started.                                                                           |

> | progress            | float   | Percentage in a 0 to 1 interval of the scenario progress.                    |

Author: @MStoykov would you add it directly in the table or should we add a separated section with a dedicated explanation?

> | progress            | float   | Percentage in a 0 to 1 interval of the scenario progress.                    |

Reviewer 3: I will add an issue to do it later

> | progress            | float   | Percentage in a 0 to 1 interval of the scenario progress.                    |

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/issues/400

> | iterationInInstance | integer | The unique identifier of the current iteration across the current instance. |
> | iterationInTest     | integer | The unique identifier of the current iteration across the entire test. It is unique both in local, in cloud and in distributed or segmented executions. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| iterationInInstance | integer | The unique sequential number of the current iteration in the scenario, across the current instance. |
| iterationInTest     | integer | The unique sequential number of the current iteration in the scenario, across the entire test. It is unique in all k6 execution modes - in local, cloud and distributed/segmented test runs. However, with cloud/distributed tests, every instance will get non-overlapping index values, but they might iterate over them at different speeds, so the values won't be sequential across them. |
```

### Instance

| Field               | Type    | Description                                                              |
|---------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | iterationsInterrupted                | integer  | The amount of iterations interrupted.                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| iterationsInterrupted                | integer  | The amount of prematurely interrupted iterations in the current instance. |
```

> | iterationsCompleted     | integer | The amount of iterations completed.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| iterationsCompleted     | integer | The amount of completed iterations in the current instance.  |
```

> | vusActive            | integer  | The amount of VUs active.                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| vusActive            | integer  | The amount of active VUs.                                                |
```

> | vusInitialized           | integer | The amount of VUs initialized from the start of the test.                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| vusInitialized           | integer | The amount of currently initialized VUs.                                                                           |
```

| currentTestRunDuration            | float   | The time passed from the start of the current test run in milliseconds.                    |

### VU

| Field               | Type    | Description                                                              |
|---------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| iterationInInstance | integer | The identifier of the iteration in the current instance.                                                                 |
| iterationInScenario | integer | The identifier of the iteration in the current scenario.                  |
| idInInstance        | integer | The identifier of the VU across the instance.                            |

> | idInTest            | integer | The global-unique identifier of the VU.                                  |

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should have a general note somewhere that these identifiers are sequential integers starting from 0 and 1 respectfully and that there could be "holes" in them in some cases but in general they will just increase.

## Examples and use cases

> ### Get unqiue data once

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Get unique data once
```

> One of the common cases,  it's getting an unqiue and incremental index for accessing a dataset's item only once time per test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A common use case is getting a unique and incremental index for accessing a dataset's item only once per test.
```

The `scenario.iterationInTest` field can be used for this case. Let's show an example:

```
import exec from "k6/execution";

> import {SharedArray} from "k6/data";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { SharedArray } from "k6/data";
```

var items = 10;
var data = new SharedArray("mydata", function() {
    var arr = new Array(items);

> 	for (var i = 0; i< items; i++){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    for (var i = 0; i < items; i++){
```

		arr[i] = {"foo": "item" + i, "bar": "12345678"}
	}
	return arr;
});

export const options = {
    scenarios: {
        "use-all-the-data": {
            executor: "shared-iterations",
            vus: 100,
            iterations: data.length, // here you can also multiply so it goes through it multiple times
            maxDuration: "1h" // this will need to be big enough so that all the iterations can happen if that is what is wanted
        }
    }
}

export default function() {
    var item = data[exec.scenario.iterationInTest];

> 	console.log('my item:', item)

Reviewer 2: There are tabs mixed with spaces in this example (same in the for loop above). Better use spaces everywhere for consistency.

```suggestion
    console.log('my item:', item)
```

}
```

> ### Timing things
> The `startTime` property from `scenario` object can be used from timing things.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Timing operations
The `startTime` property from the `scenario` object can be used to time operations.
```

```
import exec from 'k6/execution';

export default function() {
    // do some long operations
	...	
	console.log("step1 took:", new Date() - new Date(exec.scenario.startTime))
	
	// some more long operations
	...
	console.log("step2 took:", new Date() - new Date(exec.scenario.startTime))
}
```

### Script naming

> The `name` can be used for executing the logic based on which script is currently running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `name` property can be used for executing the logic based on which script is currently running.
```

---
title: Execution
excerpt: 'Get execution information'
---

k6 v0.34.0 introduced the capability for getting information about the current test execution state, from inside of the test's script.

It can be used by importing the `k6/execution` module.

<div class="code-group" data-props='{"labels": [], "lineNumbers": [true]}'>

> ```js

Reviewer 2: Apparently Gatsby doesn't understand `js`. And the other code blocks should have it as well.

```suggestion
```javascript
```

import exec from 'k6/execution';

var options = {
	scenarios: {
		'myscenario': { // this will be the returned name
			executor: 'shared-iterations',

> 			maxDuration: 30m

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			maxDuration: '30m'
```
